all right let's go all right so I got an
email from the creator of the go
programming language because hold
on
uh let's go to my pictures at my
screenshots I think it's this
one you are crawling too fast come back
in a few minutes mail questions to nja
Sloan it's just his email and then this
guy and if you look up this guy he made
the go programming
language anyways so I sent him an email
and he emailed
me 38k followers anyways um he's in uh
he's in
Cambridge anyways he pointed me to this
oh yeah and for reference what we're
doing oh [__] wait do I need that no I
need the
um
internal file format oh yeah we
need we need this yes eyes
help all right
so basically we're going to take this
and make a parser or
something um so there's two ways that we
can do this
this um let's open
up so this code
um is all based on Json that I wrote
last
night dude why is it that literally
every time you use this thing rust analy
analyzer is like guys restart it why is
that someone tell
me okay anyways so I cloned this repo
already uh because it took forever I
mean it's like 400 it's like millions of
files so I didn't want to just have you
guys sit through that make sure you
shallow clone if you're going to clone
it um but so yes we have all these files
that are like in this format and then
there's two ways that we can probably
um build the graph the first way is to
just use a Rex and find every
single
um a
code what happens when we get to a
million um and then we just create an
edge from the beginning of the sequence
to everything else the other way to do
it is that we only look at these percent
y
codes the annoying thing though is that
let's see if let's see if this one has
it sequence in
context
uh kakowski sequence all right let's go
further down cuz some of them have them
and some of them don't so let me just
see
um what is it called is it called
sequence and context
yeah okay so some of these have this
thing
where the references has the sequence
and context which doesn't even make
sense to me and then also this and I
feel like we probably don't want these
in the graph cuz they're not
mathematically relevant so if we're
trying to find like links between
mathematics we're not going to find it
with those edges so we probably want to
get rid of those edges or just not add
them in the first place I'm go take a
[__]
for
e
what is
this
decimal what is so what is so
fundamental about the golden
ratio it's an irrational number
right
whoa what the golden ratio five is the
most irrational among irrational numbers
what does that even mean dude is
successive continued
fraction
convergence oh that is a real word or
the slowest to approximate its actual
value how do you prove that that's one
of the craziest things I've actually
ever seen
dude wow that's super [__] cool all
right so I
think
um how do we want to do
this all right let's just start with the
first thousand we'll start with a0000
how many are there in here 100 or th
there's a th okay so we'll start with
the first
thousand
um want to turn this
on
um okay so all right I'm just going to
try this
um I have have hold on I have a bunch of
files like the above let's go do
this
um I want
to WR a rust script that is there a
compact I mean you could just write into
graphes
but
the first
grabs holy
[__]
it's six
right
all right let's see if that's too
long interesting and practical wow I've
never felt so
special just WR the [__] code
bro should we start this over should
delete all this
code we don't need dlm
um okay this is what I'm going to
do
uh
okay we're just going to start a new one
cuz I don't really give a [__] um we're
going actually put this up here because
this is the main
one okay
cool okay so yeah let's just try
it
all right so let's just do this copy
path yeah read to
string then you get this but does
this I don't know how to parse this um
um cuz I want the actual what's wrong
here oi y yo dude that is one of the
most annoying
things can I just do
this what is it called like that
something like that right this is a raw
string with
with they have a dock on Rost strings I
think that should be
fine all right so we can close this
other
[Music]
one what thank you for not promp me at
all oh there we
go it's cuz my computer crawls to what
what happened let me try to do
this see if I do this is my CPU usage go
lower we'll
see
um
I should just turn off some of these
things maybe these things are doing some
[__]
disable
what other nonsense is in
here all right I don't
know
main
ID I think all we have to do is
this
okay and it's a it's a hash set perfect
okay so that's all we have to
do okay uh let's look at the rust graph
Library graph rust I think it's called
pet
graph pet graph is pretty
under
like it's not that
good
um it's got like some stuff but I don't
think it's that good okay so we want a
directed
graph
um okay
um
nice okay
cool
[Music]
um
I'm just trying to figure out like okay
so what we want to do now is
um
copy
Beth
um
um we want
to add a step where we filter out any of
the a codes from the second
rejects that don't Ur in the folder SL
file
set all right it'll probably figure that
out
just write the code why does it have to
like explain to
me like I'm a total
idiot dude it okay okay someone how does
it how could it possibly get this wrong
does anyone understand
that
that is super bizarre to me how could it
get that
wrong that's really
weird available AE right okay that's
fine all right I'm okay with
this except for this super [__]
bizarre oh
wait can you just do this I I thought
you had to do like
a I guess
not oh my [__]
God I don't give a
[__]
for
but I I actually don't really get
this file name
dropped I don't really get
that I thought you could just throw
around
clones oh
wait I do
this it doesn't do
anything
we don't need to add anything yet all
right let's just run
it what what the
[__] hold on hold on what is it doing
it's saying for okay
so all right now make it good dude
coding is so much easier when you don't
really have to
like think about non
sense yeah this is not too bad we we'll
have to change that later but that's
fine okay then here what do we get
instead
of extract main ID I don't know if we
need to do all that
but all right let's see if that
works
cool that's pretty good so for the first
one you get the main wait
what oh yeah wait hold on I want it to
be a VC
actually
uh
for
what happened oh probably Cu uh some
weird
collar oh yeah okay [__]
you
um I guess that's oh jeez what
happened oh my
God
um find map s twring filter.
collect and
collect cuz
this we actually want it to
be
we actually want it to be a set there so
I guess collect does the D duplication
can right a little thing for rust
playground to see if collect to Hash
set it must I don't even know why I'm
asking
okay is that how many there
are Okay cool
so this is kind of a weird
thing yeah it's kind of weird but
whatever um
um okay so what we can do is we
can
graph we get a
diaph
okay uh I just say use pet graph I don't
know uh yo I hate docks like this like
show me how to do what I want you know
what I mean okay
graph from edges
[Music]
H it's not really how I usually do this
but uh
what if I just did
this let mute G equal
to pet graph
Digraph new can I do
that yeah of course
not wait what happens if I do that oh
wait no [__] that's not what I wanted at
all I
wanted
could not
find I don't know why that's not in the
suggestions can I do
this I think I have I think it's I think
it's because it's a
flag so I think I think it's a
flag I'm me read
this
yeah one would think that right oh wait
did I just hold
on hold on actually I'm an idiot I
think
um
let's see here stir stir we want what
are the two parameters for that I don't
even think this works let me just copy
this and see if this does
anything okay let's just see how far
does it get all right I guess that's
right what are the oh this is the vertex
weight and this is The Edge
weight uh okay so we can just make them
unit
all right so that's fine we'll make them
unit uh
[__]
this and this CU we don't need any Edge
weight we just want the
graph
okay makes
sense wait what's wrong what happened to
my
[__] what
happened what the
hell I think rust analyzer crashed okay
so now what we we want to do
is let's see what what what kind of what
kind of things do we have here hello
hello there we
go
um okay it's not bad so let V
equal uh
okay
um
oh
right but it should be in order it
should be in order
so we don't really
care oh
yeah okay
then process file what does this
do okay
so we don't want to print anything we
just want to return
the
um it just runs the regx and then this
does the filter though okay so the we
can just do this
and it returns
this uh we'll call this out
neor okay then yeah cool that sounds
good oh and it's a string so we need to
okay
that's silly
what how did it do it dude th this is
not a good this is it's all right I
don't want to hate I won't be a
hater add an edge from A to B with its
weight return the index of the new Edge
panics if the node doesn't exist Panic
if the graph is at the max number of
edges for its index type interesting
okay uh can I just do
this oh
great maybe I should just compute the
two
PS
for
e
I guess what I could do is I I can
just yeah make the two PS first but
that's stupid I should be able to just
do
this node
index I remember I had to do
this why I don't get this
for
this is written so confusing to me all
right but I guess this is what we're
going to
do is that a thing how do I where does
that come
from I I don't
know uh let's just see if it figures it
out so we want to do
I don't know why I
didn't Matrix
cph dude I hate this [__] graph
Library
what bro I swear wait this returns a
okay that's fine let's see can I get
this to
work stable graph I don't know which one
of these to use I think it's this one no
I have no
idea let's see where does this come
from is it stable
I have no
idea who the [__] wrote this Library can
we hate for a little bit who wrote this
horrible horrible
Library it's just it's just not
maintained it's crazy that nobody does
graphs stuff with
rust that's so weird this library is
dead it was
made 10 years ago
and where is this guy
now wow
dude oh great another [__]
master master
derp
I
okay
cool
um minimum spanning tree that's pretty
cool let me read these comments create
an undirected
graph with i32 nodes but see that's
what's so weird oh I guess yeah I guess
okay that's just
um right CU really what happened was
some guy just needed to do something
with with a graph and then he wrote this
simple library and then everyone just
started using it but it's like
not
okay I think we're
ready oh
right let's just do
this can we just do
this this should return to uze right
um are these the same type what does
this do yeah okay
cool oh
[__]
for
that's super annoying but that's
okay
I'm a
dummy
huh uh
for
that is so insane that it really thinks
it needs
to whatever I I don't give a [__] I
don't give a
[__] don't give a [__]
do programmer are like brain dead that
they think that oh I need to know that I
need to import this stupid
[__] this is probably too
big
is no but is there a DOT parser that's
what I'm trying to okay cool but what
does it load into let's try this okay so
J let's see
what's did it SW because it probably
still using
freaking I guess
not no but see it doesn't
actually let okay wait hold
on let's see if this is uh reading and
writing
graphs dot oh I hate that
sound oh
wait
nice doesn't have writing okay so wait
so we want to actually arm graph
F let's
see yum
Okay
cool so now how do you load
it oh great they've got a whole bunch of
extension things that's
fantastic I don't like
those
I guess it makes
sense all right so usage usage usage
usage for example an edge list
file okay so dot hold on I probably have
to do this first
oh why am I so d dumb I should have
known that inevitably I was going to use
Julia enable
Okay and wait for oh
God I knew it it's just a broken ass
language how do software people even
live with
themselves
I don't
know all
right wait hold on uh you need
to activate this
environment hello
hello thank you for not responding to me
at
all I mean what are you
doing
oh wait did
I why doesn't it
work what is going on
here
this was just working I have I
honestly
okay oh there we go oh great y'all are
so fing
annoying didn't report that it needed to
restart dude it wasn't until I did a oh
great no it actually doesn't
work why doesn't it
work someone tell
me total [__]
nonsense oh my God okay
wait is it because of this if I just
disable
this let me see if I can get it working
this obviously we can just disable all
of this
horrible
[__] okay let's see if I disable Russ
analyzer and I
restart can I get the basic thing to
work why is the extension
broken did I just had this
working
I'm so
confused we can disable this
too I was so confused because um
for
why does that work come on bro is it
because I'm in a Works Space that things
just don't work let's try
that honestly wouldn't put put it past
me this thing [__]
sucks never mind it just doesn't
like this thing for some
reason but I don't know why oh there we
go it just took
forever is it working
here that is so random
dude
that is so random just doesn't work if
it's in a workspace or something
whatever at some point you just have to
do
something
okay uh load
graph graph dot dot what is that graph
key I I don't know what that
means dude the juliia language server is
broken hello can I have
anything y'all thinking about trying or
no cuz I don't
know
stupid as
[__] of course it just links to
the how are you supposed to do anything
in this
life x o dot probably o do oh I O DOT
okay that's what it
is
what was it called dot
format oh dude that's cool man furry
analyst I like that um yeah so okay here
I'll I'm just getting frustrated by
having to write [__] code all the time
by things that don't work yeah we're
looking at the online encyclopedia of
integer sequences I found this
repository that has every sequence file
so I cloned it how long ago was this you
still okay cool it was recent um and so
then I wrote
this R oh this is the old one we can
close this do you work in uh
differential geometry and pdes that's
cool uh okay so we wrote this code that
looks at one of those
um that looks at a folder in the
sequences let's see let me show the
actual thing so in here you go to
sequences and then you have a thousand
sequences so this one is the number of
centered hydrocarbons with n atoms dude
that's [__] rad isn't that so sick so
anyways then you go down here and you
look
at there are these
um percent wise well actually right
now I'm looking for basically a specific
Rex a with six numbers after
it and um we're just creating a graph
where the edges are the
hyperlinks so and then I just want so I
already have a graph in graph format but
I problem is I think
maybe I mean this is already pretty big
you know a few thousand
edges okay yeah of course dot format not
defined great anyways I tried to use an
online
viewer
um okay if I do this let's see if this
works
I'm so sick of
this okay there we go I think
that's cannot
purse what if I just use graph is
itself why am I even trying to
use let's see let's let's go get graph
this
o this is why I hate computers
man it's like can I do
anything Windows exe installer that
looks
[Music]
good uh
okay
fine wait I want it to add to my path do
not add add path
yes
okay
cool that looks like
it's right okay
so it's kind of like the worst but I
cannot be bothered to deal with
Julia's
Brokenness
okay now I have a doc
file uh how do I visualize
it I think there's a way to get it to
expert to
SVG SVG is great because then I can I
mean I wish it was interactive so I
could pull it apart but um
what is it going so
slowly all right that looks good I'm
just going to change that to
PNG
you know what I probably could
um
[__] dude mathematics is so good I just
wish it was not so
expensive
wait oh never mind yeah that's fine but
we shouldn't have any Loops I just want
to make sure that there's no
Loops but there is a loop there's a loop
how did that happen that's not
right
I was supposed to remove that all right
let's look at something else 981 to 981
why are the loops here
BR we need to rewrite this
so
that seems
good I'm going to try
to that should maybe reduce the size of
this
graph okay yeah that that's that's a lot
better um but
still all right let's try PNG maybe PNG
is
faster it's just still a pretty big
graph and it's giving me
nothing I just want to look at the
pretty
pictures I just want to look at the
pictures
let's at the first
100 to the first 100 so we oh
yeah
okay all right here we go the
edges okay all right so this is never
going to finish
um
for
okay well if that's the case let's try
to do the first
100 um available a codes it gives me a
directory
okay
what I'm curious about is actually if I
do this cuz this could be totally wrong
all right
so we're going to do here is
uh
okay then all I want to do is
um reader what do this this returns like
a type called reader like option reader
oh great and now the is the rust
analyzer
disabled it's literally like I have
brain
damage
yeah returns a freaking R to it's
annoying
but okay fine I don't really
care I just want to make sure that the
sequence files are in the right order
and
uh unwrap do
unwarp do
collect how do you do this it's like
a it's like
that right okay wait let
uh
dude it is actually like I brain
damage
uh wow programming
sucks I would not want to be a
programmer
yeah yeah great completion
idiot all
right okay cool
so all right that's
nice
should we try it I mean it's just such a
big
ass your graph is data is private
yeah except it's
not
L come
on come on bro what we talking about all
right
so
H so in instead of
this
um uh instead of this so what is this
this is all of the
codes so all this should do now is just
call
map it calls map and it okay yeah so
uh
um
wait actually I probably can just say
um file name to I to a
code okay
cool that is useful so
now right so this entry is a dur entry
yeah okay inter string
unwrap there returns an OS
string
meet
okay so
now
um I think all we have to do is
um
available a codes equals oh
wait
um why doesn't this work
here
uh
unwrap wait can I do like a is it's like
a
filter isn't it oh is a map okay or
something I forget what it
is or Vex string or whatever it is I
don't really give a
[__] it's encoding is so
stupid my mind is going so much faster
than this stupid [__] type
system right you read this directory you
unwrap it so this can to return a result
and then when you unwrap it this part
gives
you this is a v okay so
whatever okay evans. map huh do
it
map uh X to x.
unwrap
collect it's just so
dumb oh wait can I just do that first no
do
um Okay cool so now we have a VEC of dur
entry wait
two what do I want
actually available a codes what was that
before no I shouldn't have gotten rid of
it available it should be just a veck
of
string yeah this is kind of silly but
whatever all right cool so this is
fine
um wait so we could actually just do
this a code to use oh
wait f file name to a
code right so this won't work because
this is a dur entry
so what you need to do is some [__]
like fil name.in string.
unrap isn't that so fun just like a
whole bunch of random things that
they're like yeah do this do
that what is this function
take a
string oh my
God there we go okay so this is a of
string so we're just going to do
this
[__] I hate
this okay we have this directory all
right I'm just going to ask gbt CU it's
it's really not worth my
time all let's see if this
works yeah yeah rest is for
idiots
I stand by that rust is for
idiots all right so what we want to do
now is
um for idiots that want to just not do
anything with their life okay make
graph it's not going to work oh yeah
well oh my [__] God I am so so pissed
off with everything oh my god did it
really do that it couldn't
remember uh whatever whatever whatever I
don't give a
[__] I am
not I'm not going to let this bring me
down oh cool she was right
here actually we don't need that okay
all right right we're ready now we can
get a small one that we can just look at
nope
what oh my God I'm so [__]
mad so where where is the back Trace can
we do
this will this work on
Windows
what
I I feel like rust back traces suck like
doesn't help me at
all all right whatever we can just do
this
where is this getting
used oh wait oh wait okay yeah
um it. map God this is so there we
go
oh right yeah that doesn't okay so now
wait why is this so big oh yeah because
we didn't
actually of course
not of course not yeah no why would you
be want to be able to easily do
anything why would you want to be able
to easily do
anything I want to make everything as
hard as possible for
myself okay
cool I just want to see what it looks
like dude it's so ridiculous online grab
F come on can we get this
going
interesting
nice okay so we need to get
these oh that's a stupid
ass okay so we'll add a usize node
label I mean it's actually dumb because
the wait no wait I think I can do
this I think it'll default to the thing
it's
should can we we need to get rid of
this right right right right yeah see
that's that's at least
better and these are all shifted by
one everything goes to 40
40 and 78 have really high IND
degree all right so let's go to so this
is actually 41 so
a00
041 the number of partitions of n the
partition numbers yeah that's pretty I
don't actually understand what that is
so I'll have to look at that
oh
boy I'm really curious how big the
uh
that's
PR
e
all right I really want to just build
the whole
graph
okay welcome everyone to my continuation
of what are my favorite theorems are
very biased collections usual today I
would like to talk about one of my
favorite combinatorial object and I was
just thinking whether actually the topic
is really also something I like so I
really like partitions
part he's known as one of the
mathematicians with perhaps the most
natural talent for maths it's a man
called Rian he was an Indian
mathematician he started with no formal
training in mathematics but just by
working alone isolated he was able to
come up with all these mathematical
facts these theorems all by himself
somewhere rediscoveries of things that
were
already you and he sent these to
Cambridge mathematicians and they
recognized his talent and he was invited
to come to Cambridge and show off what
he could do when we're filming this uh a
film has just come out all about Rion
this film is concentrated on one
achievement it's something to do with
partitions so partitions is about the
number of ways we can break down a
number we take a number an integer and
how many ways can we break it down into
positive parts and to prove that I'm a
serious mathematician I'm going to
illustrate this by using dup here let's
say we take number four and I've got
four unit of D there how many ways I
rate this down into positive parts so I
start with this it's a power of four or
I could break it down right I have a
three and a one right or I can have a
two a one and a one well I could break
it down again I could
have one one one one and this one I've
missed there if you noticed I have
missed out breaking it down into two and
two so are five ways to break this down
so if we draw this out we can draw it
like this 1 2 3 four you can do a three
and a one like that two two we can have
two one one one one one one like that so
this is what actually do they do it this
way because by seeing it as a picture
you can actually make conclusions about
partitions which are easier to see the
do this slight differently the dra them
like this you can have a row four like
that and you have a row three with a row
one like that so way around like
this and the last one here one so it's
slightly different way of doing it
footnote from a textbook do you have a
favorite footnote from a
textbook okay integer partitions very
interesting okay so now I really want
this graph I expect it to be huge but I
really want this graph so
now um let's
see we want to do a traversal
of okay so I'm going to close
this all
right um
okay
so let me get rid of
this
filter map filter map filter
map made by
idiots
for
okay just just do
it just do
it okay that's pretty
good and then make graph FN reader
directory
uh no no you you are dumbest brains I
don't know what that means but this
guy's
dumb I don't
care
we don't give a [__] we don't give a
[Music]
[__] just called seek oh it's just
called seek okay that's
fine
nice Okay cool so then all we want to do
is
um
okay so the first step you get all this
subd directories then you
map get seeks okay fine so
get
okay well we could just write a for Loop
um
okay
so
um
for
okay
um okay all right so what are we doing
here uh gets all the file names and
makes a single massive back
okay this is just so painful
bro so what what do we need to ref
Factor though we actually do need to
change something
because
here we do this but this is not going to
work we actually want we want all the
file
names and then we don't we want to
iterate the file
names
for
uh
uh bro okay
Prince
Len oh let's go that seems about
right seems a little
low
[Music]
okay
um so what's happening
now uh we have all the file names so now
we just need to
change let me move this helper function
up
here
okay so now we just give it a set of
file names so this is just going to
be okay so we can do this we can
do this now
for
[Music]
um we have a file name to a code thing
right wait
um
God coding is so
stupid no I don't want
Julia why does it keep thinking that I
want that what happened okay whatever uh
it's stri it why did it strip it why did
it think that that would be
cool
so much this is just dealing with file
paths I think hundreds of thousands of
lifetimes have been just dealing with
this
nonsense
okay real trap
[__] okay let's try it
again boom Okay cool so that is exactly
right so now what we want to do
is um file name to a code FN Z is
probably going to give me some stupid
air oh it moved it
moved
okay
um okay we're almost
there and then
I
what see the problem is we're going to
have to fix so much stuff
I just want the
graph why does why why do I have to do
any real
work why do I have to do any real work
to get what I want
okay
yeah that's
nice
so maybe we should make the aode the uh
but it's just going to make it so
[__] messy
dude okay well so now we
have 369
559 there's I don't know where the I
don't know what happened the missing
ones maybe at the time I cloned it I
don't know we can actually
see I mean it's from like hours ago it's
I don't
know so that means that we
probably okay so let's uncomment this
thing and start to make this
work we can delete this so it takes a
yeah
um where the pet graph
docks I okay I
see
okay so we could just make it U
size the weight
is
V okay so
then FNS
for
profounding
that
okay
P okay so first we do this o of n pass
which is fine profile name in this we
probably want to do
this
process
file then available
codes uh okay we can we can do
that the filtering
process
borrow borrow
borrow expected
path okay wait
um
will that
work where are all of these weird yellow
things coming from they're bothering
me okay cool so I think that that should
do
it now I'm very
curious
um
okay so we want to just do if I mod a
th000 process D files okay
cool [__] all right let's see what
happens oh oops I'm a silly
goose I'm I'm a silly goose oh wait hold
on let's do
this
big I don't even know
um see that's weird right
so this should be
one and this should be
zero yeah so the problem is we want to
do
everything just with a
codes we want to do everything with a
codes so that means that when we add an
edge we we need to find the
index so we
[Music]
um wait a code to you size no that's
right that's
fine
the problem is that when we do add edge
we actually want to add an
edge between node labels
which
I wonder if you can just do
that maybe we'll build up a hash map
um and I'll just look at it let
um perfect knows what I
want a code to Index this is not wait we
don't do we want the a code or do we
want the U
size
we'll use the U size
um so then we want
to now we want to
um
I think it should all be consistent now
right oh oh oh that's
useful
cool I feel like that should be fine
let's see what
happens
Jesus
for
okay so this is not g to
work wait but I want
to
wait does this overwrite or is this
going to
duplicate
yeah see that's not going to
work so we're just going to do
this
this is ridiculous
holy
[__] okay well that makes sense the just
the right it doesn't even have the edges
writing just the file
h
oh but it has to do the rewriting every
time yeah no so oh gosh this is a total
mess all right so what if we did this
what if we did this we give
it
um all right we're going to do we're
going to do 5,000 and then we're just
going to uh
Panic
uh no Panic immediately if I mod
[Music]
5000 we're just going to do this if I
equals
5,000
I just want to see how big it will be
it's probably going to be
massive there's 350,000
nodes
what am I getting myself into
bro see this is all just
writing I think io on Windows is slow
though but I'm not sure about that but
I've heard stuff about
that
perfect
but I like the Julia graphs Library
so w there aren't as many edges as I
would think let's
see there's a lot of
edges oh
wait
R
again I think this is
default
yeah okay so there's off by one up until
I think like 350,000 for some reason not
sure what happens
there
all right so let's see
here
okay
369 369 to
407 okay so yeah that mean that's a lot
of
edges that's not a ton of edges
though
graph
ml
maybe we'll try to use Network
x wait hold
on we need to
do
bro we need to do some checking it's all
python is it
slow it's written in Python there's no
way it can be
fast
I bet I bet it's just like untenably
slow
okay then I guess we have to [__] use
um maybe we have to do this
but pet graph might not have a way to
export oh
[__] all right wait hold
on dude there's no way that this is not
huge
you know what I know I deleted it but
I'm going to try to make it work
again
we should just look at the
tests dot
tests
what is
this has
isomorph is there test files where is
the test
files
two graphs dot dot dot
dot we need to close all this
crap you know what I didn't
actually yeah I forgot because what we
could do is we could start to
prune the thing is I'm not even far
enough along for the edge count to be
the limiting factor it's literally just
that there's so many nodes and that the
code is slow
okay
well
um oh wait but what if there's no
name all right well I don't I don't care
okay graphs graph iio parser combinator
okay I mean I could literally just write
my own parser it's not even that
freaking hard
bro okay good oh
whoa oh yeah no this is Julia stuff yeah
that makes sense okay read test I don't
know what that is but right test I don't
know what that
is load
graph
wait how do you make it a raw
string how do you do
it
still oh wait is it oh yeah yeah yeah
right there just the highlighting is not
okay
[Music]
cool oh
wait
dude this is
so
annoying saved three
graphs
save
what
this doesn't even exist when was the
last time this Chi
run I doubt that these tests
run
oh you know what it's probably because
uh the
label it probably doesn't
support
God damn okay wait so let me just try to
do
this or wait actually I'll just
uh oh there's two in here that's
weird
isn't that great what a good error
message cannot
parse oh it's so
useful it's seriously so
useful okay wait what about this if I
just did
this
oh my God it just doesn't
work Python's too slow I know
it
for
okay I think I might take another
approach and instead of even doing
anything with pet graphs I am going to
do
uh something better because I don't I
have ambiguity about whether or not this
is correct because of this node index
thing so what I'm going to do
is copy all
this
say I want to rewrite this to not build
a
graph but just
incrementally uh write rows to a CSV
where the First Column is the source
vertex a code and the second column is
the
d a code
honestly I feel like this should be
super
easy cuz then I can just use CSV JL and
I could just say the unique vertices
that were found are the graph yeah this
is this is a better approach okay so C
add C
CSV C
add sur- F
Drive okay
cool uh that seems a little [__] but
whatever
for
hm
cuz now it's just a code to a code and I
I can verify that it's right pretty
easily
nice
and plus now we just know the
uh this is great this is way easier I
don't know why I was trying to use this
terrible
Library don't use libraries don't be a
chump don't be a chump bro do I look
like a
chump all
right calm
down I mean we're already at 10,000
should I just wait for
this I'm going to take a f minute
break
e
honestly I was expecting the number of
edges to grow way way faster fter I was
expecting it to be
like in the
millions so this is an average of like
five edges per
node wait why do we have dude oh [__]
okay I'll just have to filter those out
but we need to
say
uh
if damn I'm a
dumbass we're going to also
do okay so now we can just do this so I
want to try this so now we can do cuz
graph is just a broken I
mean I I guarantee this thing has like
one user maybe two but it's just like
total total
garbage um
parser add CSV data
frames okay DF is equal cv. read uh G.C
CSV data
frame oh wait we probably have to do
this then this
I'm so much happier with this approach
not using pet
graph hopefully it'll just give me an
unbr toen yeah you know it's not a big
deal oh
sick uh yeah okay so DF is equal
to oh perfect they can use string seven
that's actually super hype cuz it'll be
compact that's really
cool
um okay so I'll just chop up the last
one just
cuz uh so now what we want to
do
uh
uh we'll call vids vids
yeah
perfect okay so we're actually like I
should just leave this running cuz we
will get it all done and my expectation
is that the number of edges per vertex
as we go through this is going to drop I
don't really know how to verify that but
it probably
will Okay cool so now uh G is equal
equal
to uh right now I can just use graph. JL
which is actually a good Library like
graphs. JL is actually
good uh construction we the problem is
we
need all right let's just do this
diagraph add
vertex
[Music]
wait no no that's not what I
want
oh
really
what we need
this probably way slower dude oh
wait no
matter I like that okay
um
easy okay wait so if I do B is equal to
adverx
G
um
Okay cool so that's actually perfect
because it's one
indexed that's exactly what we want so
that means
that we don't have to shift it by
one
um but there are holes so we can't just
see how far are we into
this this code is really
slow we're one sixth of the way
done
okay
um damn that's kind of annoying
because
uh we do
want
uh should I go to cat lab dude cat lab
has such a good graph interface I love
cat
laab documentation makes absolutely no
sense but this is pretty
good I don't remember how to do it
though
for
um how do I build
the
ooh see that's what I
want do I even need that all right we're
going to we're
g we're going to be cringe Lords and
we're going to
do
the thing is cat lab actually rules so I
don't know if I should feel like
a freak or a
baller yeah advertises G label equals
Okay cool
[Music]
so the [__] is
bje
indexed labeled graph what does that
mean what does that
mean I wonder if this code still
works
Shel graph labeled
graph 300 thou so
we've oh no we crossed it a long time
ago wait no what was I I don't
know
okay
Okay cool
so dude where is it still getting that
from I deleted so long
ago uh so we need to move
this
down and then the children thing doesn't
work so we'll have
to we're not going to use this and the
reason for that is that if I'm going to
use labels then I might as well just use
cat
laab Okay so NV equals length vids cool
so we had
60,000 you can just delete this
okay we have
a hope that works
cool label
equals vids wait vids has missing in
it
Okay cool so there was
no
okay
oh nice let's go bruh let's go
bro
uh
I always forget this indexing thing it's
so complicated to like I mean it's
mainly just cuz I'm stupid but I
always it's like okay I want to
find
the
yeah it's like this
thing
that should be fine we'll just do
that
uh
vids
wow that was
fast that was really
fast
that was
cool
very very neat what time is it's
probably like
noon yeah it's like
noon
it's
ridiculous oh my
God okay
so
um that was really easy so now how do I
convert this to a
graph so now
um how do I convert this to graph let me
read my other
code
for
how do they get the draw I want to draw
there's no way it's just too
big
did I really wish I understood this
better well they've added more to this I
think
uh what about if we do graphs. graph of
G bro that was too
easy
[Laughter]
okay so wait so we want to do connected
components I hate this
error what
wow oh
wait interesting I wonder what this is
that's
neat there's a connecting component with
things in
it it's all
alone so wait can we get the vertices of
that connected component yeah we can
right okay so sort CC's by equals
length then we to
take n minus 2 then we want to take sdg
of this and that gives me the induc
subgraph and now this I wonder if I can
convert it back
to a cat
lab
graph well actually no we we don't even
need to do that we
have the
vertices so then all we need to do is
um hat lab. graphs. induced subgraph of
G how does this work can we can we get
this guy can we get a [__] dog
string in this [__]
acking yeah I guess we can
okay can we get a [__] dog
Str right so how do we get this draw
thing can we get a [__] dark
stream this shouldn't be too
bad dude cat lab is [__]
sick
uh we could just do
this
oh yeah we we we need to remove the self
Loops we want to do this too uh node lab
equal
true wait but that is
not right how what was the code that I
wrote to
display the actual thing dude this
library is sick yo am I [__] sick Bro
I think I might be [__] sick oh [__]
I think I'm [__] sick oh my God oh my
God I think I'm [__] awesome okay
what do I
do
oh yeah here's the binary oh this is
sick I forgot about
this uh two graph is node oh node labels
equals symbol label okay
cool cannot convert an object of
type string
seven
H what if we
tried okay what if we tried
this nice okay so um that's
okay uh oh yeah we want to filter
the loops out of it
so wait
actually I think I can write this myself
um so we get a a
mask
so wait so this oh [__] we shouldn't
have reread
it oh
boy can we skip the missing one and then
we skip the self Loops wow there's a lot
of self Loops I mean that makes sense
there's going to be one for
everything okay then we get the
vids why are there so many skipped I
don't oh no yeah I'm
dumb dude it's so
fast it's actually Crazy
Fast right we don't want this we want
this hell
yeah oeis reference graph viewer I could
use my old code dude
what is this
graph
oh it's a Rubik's
Cube what bro consider a 3x3x3 Rubik's
Cube but only allow the moves T2 D2 F2 I
don't even know what those moves
are sequence gives number of positions
that are exactly in
moves
from the
start dude it's a Fibonacci
Sequence wait it's almost the Fibonacci
sequence we need to remove this stupid
sequence in context
thing that's a really interesting one
all right so there's this whole network
of Rubik I bet if I bet all of these are
like Rubik's Cube related actually
that's probably not
true oh they are it's all just Rubik's
Cube stuff that is
awesome that is so freaking cool
man it's all just Rubik's
Cubes
wow that is super [__] cool
man
okay
all right dude this is so cool all right
so wait let's look at the other induced
subgraph I probably won't be able to
plot it though because it's so
big
sequence and context destroys so much of
this
though we need to filter that out so
then we need to write the parser for it
how long have we been
streaming 3 hours it's not that
long but I need to write this script for
uh this video I want to do on
combinatorics so wait what is this
one number of Poss possible permutations
of a Rubik's cube of size n by n
byn wow dude the 2x 2x two Rubik's Cube
is
actually really big I just want to
Google this
[Laughter]
number
awesome
dude it's
crazy 43 quillion that's the amount of
States Rubik's Cube can be in in other
words there are more possible ruik Cube
combinations than there are sand Grays
on earth now at first this may sound
like it's false information but what
about the
combinations is there a combinations
thing
well I should be able to
take would it be
over n cubed
factorial take this number and divide it
by8
factorial of
8 let's see what let's see if I Google
this
number
huh so
cool okay wait let's look at the
big the big boy well let's see how close
am I to being
done hold on does SNAP still do
stuff
cool so we need we need the other
methodology
too
um
okay so let me write to read
me
the first is just creating uh between
all
a
codes
um
found through a Rex the
second is just looking at
y
cross at
the cross ref
section
the third will
be
removing sequence in context and
adjacent adj what is it sequence what is
it I don't even know what it is adjacent
sequences
it's literally so
beautiful
okay
e
oh man number of possible permutations
of a Rubik's cube of size n byn
byn you know you know what I don't
understand how they say the Busy Beaver
thing grows faster than anything
else but it starts at like I don't know
it goes to like 100 it's not that fast
this thing goes to like 3 million in a
second
look at this
guy I don't know any of this earliest
discovered examples of a total
computable function that is not
primitive
recursive
okay now I'm just like checking over and
over again because I don't know what
else to
do wow we're close we're
close so let me go back to my list of
interesting things to look at
we can just start to compute
them let's go up to the
top degree distribution now that's
interesting yeah could we just do that
um
out
uh why did we call it simple D just call
it DG I'm not like a
[__] okay
uh interesting okay wait so wait so hold
on um
one would hope that they that they don't
Shuffle anything
around uh so that means
that base
okay
wow uh
is it 40
though oh yeah it's totally
40 that is exactly what you would expect
that the prime numbers are the most
referenced integer sequence out of all
of them like by far I don't know let's
see is it by far 43 is pretty
important Fibonacci numbers that's so
[__] cool
bro that's so cool
man
damn should we start to write a script
for
this because I want to make a Tik Tok
about
this this
I made a list of the most important
lists this list is the list of all
lists you know something silly like
that
um wait do I have a
tally okay whatever 204 what's
204 um okay wait so uh so uh so um uh so
um uh so so um
[Music]
um
wow it it actually goes down they merged
so you found a link that's
cool
for
okay so what what's so so what so what
was I going to do though uh yeah okay so
I wanted to do uh first
dot
uh first.
Fu
first
10 and then math app X to uh I is it ID
V or no it's vid vid ID
X the Calon
numbers a very large number of
combinatorial interpretations are
known
binomial 2 nn/ n + 1 2 N factorial Over
N why is that of
importance I've never I've never I've
never stumbled on a catalon numbers
myself so it's not like I
um so these are all of oh oh [__] what
the
hell no
what 217 108 10 what was 10
again the totient
function count numbers less than or
equal to n and Prime to n oh wow what
does that
mean it's a number the thing I
guess number
Theory 203 what is
this the sum of the
divisors dude I just love that I just
love this so much what's up with five
what's five
oops to the number of divisors then you
sum the divisors what is what is Sigma
2 so cool so cool so so so so so so
cool I wonder what place my favorite is
in so that's that was
203 wait five was the
was five the
totient no yeah five was to which is
just the number of
divisors oh so actually it's interesting
the sum of the devisers has been can we
print
um
uh a show first F 20 let's see does that
work doesn't really work um I wonder if
we can do like a tally plot there's
probably a histogram
can we just plot I don't
know uh wait but we
want we want the sequence
number so we want to
do
the yeah so we want to
do Map X
to of first Dot food we we want all of
them okay so this is
uh
uh something I don't know I don't know
what that is okay but
then what we want to do is we want to do
I don't know
to
last.
okay
print first 20 uh PS
20 okay
so we should get the
name then I got to just look at the
name what was 79 did I go to 79 I don't
think
so the powers of two pretty
important but it's like what does that
even mean bro cuz what about the powers
of 10 why aren't the powers of 10
important but if you just type in the
the powers of 10 1 10
100 powers of 10 you got to wonder why
is this not
important who knows
us
e
demoto let me produce your album
bro demoto what's what's up what's
hanging
whatling
yeah
where we at 41 what was
41 it's a huge re reassurance oh the
number the partition numbers okay so I
should just
do
um
for
free
me free
me let's
go all right so what what where were we
where were we we were at
um okay we were at that yeah that makes
sense copying 2,000 numbers into
there um I wonder I wonder if I wonder
if I wonder if this
works no
sad
how far are we into this
thing we're almost at a million
edges that's kind of not that many I
mean the number of edges in Wikipedia
was like astonishingly big but that
makes sense
though um okay wait what was I doing I
was just looking at these uh
I love that we found this weird little
niche of Rubik's Cube
things all these numbers are
Brazilian
that's
awesome last pug
G semi
primes interesting that's a cool
sequence how do you do the
enumeration wow that's really cool I
like this sequence this is one of my new
favorite sequences actually it's the
semi- prime numbers it's the products of
two
primes what are the what about the tri
primes do I look up a tri
primes Tri Prime gaps [__] sick dude
Tri primes mod 10 odd Tri primes what
about just the tri
Primes
wait this isn't
right numbers that are a product of
exactly three
primes oh here we
go they should call it Tri
primes right starts with eight that's
pretty sick what about quad primes table
Red by row N primes but what about sums
what what are the what is the sequence
for the sum of two primes
called numbers that can be expressed in
the unordered sum of two primes in
exactly two
ways no no no no but what I'm trying to
say
is four
five
6 okay so
uh okay so you got 2 + 2 got 2 + 3 you
get two uh 3 + three you
got 2 + 5 so you get seven 3 + 5 8
78 can you wait Can
you what is the
sequence for the
number
that wait is this the goldb conjecture I
can't remember there's there's some sort
of
thing where like can you that
um can be
represented as the sum of two
Primes
oh
yeah of course there's not a sequence
for
this who is this
guy oh man that is
awesome oh wait he's from kidsburg
that's crazy the found the city of
topology I love that what does it
say
okay that's so funny dude see you can
just like stumble on stuff
that wait that's wrong that's the
product of
t
wait okay wait so wait what if we just
look up the natural
numbers I wonder if there's a thing that
it's a
conjectured sum of two
[Music]
primes what if I just look up
gold
Bo number
of
gold boox comment that's so
cool
wow
okay so let's keep
going 41
2275 oh wait is did we just look at oh
yeah we just looked at that the product
of two
primes the number of distinct primes
dividing
n
maybe we should do some treat reversals
see
how far can you
get the primes was 40
right so it should be
that makes
sense you can basically get
everywhere but actually you know what I
want to do I want to do
uh
1429 then I want to do
uh wait oh wait no wait I can't TRW
that
it's even
bigger everything is so
connected so so so so
connected
okay wait what was I going to do I
forgot what I was looking at I wanted to
make some pretty
pictures I don't remember what I was
doing wait I don't
remember
what was this
one what was this one though I forgot oh
yeah the oh yeah semi primes dude I like
this
one just weird weird stuff what's 51 I
feel like I already did all
these 2 n +
one feel like those are really lame but
they are
prime the format
primes oh they're just doubly
exponential primes not that
interesting wait is that
true
dude this guy Eric
wein dude this guy's a freaking
badass does he write all these like I
don't
so
cool I mean damn to keep a I mean math
world you find everything on math world
to imagine that just I mean he he has so
many comments his name is all over
okay so we're at
51 the primordial numbers the product of
the first end primes it's so that's so
funny man there's all these
Transformations you can
do wow so one how do you even get
one
one doesn't really make any sense unless
you say that zero is prime is zero
Prime no way I don't even want to
distinguish that question that would be
crazy be
crazy I be [__]
crazy okay so 6 2 *
3 and 2 * 3 * 5 30 then 2 * 3 *
5times seven whoa wait these numbers are
cool 510
510 a
69 that's a nice
one what was that
okay
can you just do this Prime
Omega cool
what does this
do
together with their exponents that's why
you do map at
last fact 12 2 to the 3 * yeah
okay
what is slash at that's map
right
so
I don't
understand I don't really get that it's
kind of an interesting
one uh where were we okay one two2
two
have we finished with this graph
yet the frequency of these self Loops is
going up like
crazy and some some of these are just
total
[__] um all right so where we at
720 12 I think I've seen 12
probably who is referencing this dude oh
man that's
good the Lucas numbers so recurrence
relation
this has got to be
FIB Oh
weird the Lucas numbers I've never heard
of
that
okay so Lucas numbers are named after a
guy called Edward Lucas although he was
French so Luca but I'm going to say and
if it wasn't for luuka Lucas we we
wouldn't really care about Pachi because
Pachi did some things he wrote those
numbers down didn't generalize them
didn't analyze them he did introduce
some interesting you know number systems
to Europe and he just cool bits and
pieces but these were more of a footnote
to the story of his life and then Luka
went hey these are really interesting
and he's the guy who promoted them and
he with his own sequence which is better
than the Fibonacci numbers you think
one1 what our next option so Fibonacci
STS one one and then it goes two and
then three and then 5 and then 8 and
then 13 and then onwards well what if we
start one one what if we start one two
but we can't start one two because we're
just starting here all we've done is
Move Along slightly and and so we're
going to get the same numbers if we
start one two Lucas numbers you start 2
one so you just swap them around and
then you repeat exactly the same patter
so 2 plus 1 then gives us uh three and
then we get four and then you get seven
then you get 11 and 18 and these are the
Lucas numbers and to my mind this
sequence of numbers is far more
interesting than the Fibonacci sequence
of numbers and these have a stronger
link to the golden ratio so if you take
the golden ratio
fight which isal
1.618
3398 he's remembered a lot of digits
good for him right so we know for any of
these sequences they're going to
approach that ratio but what if we start
with the ratio what if we want to take
the ratio and then get a sequence of
numbers so if you calculate 5^ s 5^
equal
2.61 180 uh so on which if you round to
the nearest whole number is three so
approximately okay so I'm going to this
column is round nearest whole number 5
cubed 5 cubed = 4.23
606 number is
four
68410 do do does it approximate it if I
carry on and take each of these whole
number it's getting closer sure enough
these are the Lucas numbers appearing up
here interesting of the golden ratio
round the nearest whole number gives you
the Lucas numbers that's Fibonacci
numbers are linked to the golden ratio
in the way that every other similar
sequence is if you start with the golden
ratio and then take Powers is because
what you're doing is you're multiplying
each ter by the Golden by that ratio to
get the next turn so [__] cool dude
okay the Lucas numbers are sort of why I
thinkc numers are very care that is
crazy the Lucas numbers I've never heard
of that before
ever
see this is what I would say is like
related to the human mind whereas
like like because we live in
three-dimensional space we care about
cubes I don't know this is one of those
ones where I'm like is that actually
cool
or is it sort of like if we're higher
dimensional
beings what is this
exactly right and and they get like so
much attention but you know if you ask
me that's like not that cool 8,000 wait
we're only at oh no never mind 500
still wait are we sorting by IND degree
we are right so a lot of people talk
about
these but what is the
point I don't
know
for
h
e
for
wait oh is this a is this a
crystal oh damn damn that's really
cool see okay all right so I know I was
hating on the
crystal um or on the uh on the sequences
that are like related to humans but that
one I feel like is
cool like even if it's just like simple
pols or whatever but like like see it
they usually seem to
have a
um closed form
solution
but I mean I'm surprised that that's so
highly
ranked where were we at
8,000 the decimal expansion
of
I like that these decimal expansion ones
are actually in
here
1 2 4 7 11
18 that's so cool
these like simple
programs like you just wouldn't expect
it
man but this is it
right why is
geocaching why is this on a Geo cashing
website who
knows very
silly are we done we're not even done
dude probably getting bogged down with a
whole bunch of
nonsense yeah
yeah let's look at my RAM usage cuz if
I'm just getting bogged down then I
should probably rewrite the
code it's not even using that much
RAM I feel like it's going really
slowly
1 + the square < TK of 5/ 2 it seems so
arbitrary
for
dude this this one hurts my
brain this thing really hurts my
brain all right I'm going to do a few
more and then I think I'm going to call
it maybe we'll do a different stream
where
I I need to work on this video I'll keep
this I guess I got to keep this code
running have so many more to do out of
curiosity I want to know what this one
is
dude I want to find a sequence man but I
want my sequence to be
cool you
know
I don't know how long this thing is
going to run for
man be excited to have it
done okay wait let's go back to the uh
connected components
thing
was that
it
for
so
mining integer
sequences That's crazy
dude mining integer
sequences who made
this
pretty
cool
okay where were we at though I don't
even remember at this
point wait what was this sequence it was
about like the trace or
something numbers with negative
triangular Trace I don't even know what
that means
dude the world of numbers it's just so
so
cool I don't even remember where we're
at
8,27 1622 did we do
that oh
yeah
1+ what is X
number of symmetric far's graphs with n
nodes what are the fair's
graphs
is that
120 was
700 ramenu and Theta
functions who knows what that
is
that's a neat
one let me look at the Mathematica
code oh it's just digit
count hey hey
y wait these also
primes
no
two 2 to the n + one is prime but 2 to
the N minus one is not prime I don't
even know how you How do you how do you
prove that with induction I don't
know all right we're almost done do is
at
225 all right we're almost at the end of
the top 20 sequence 30
sequences greatest Prime dividing and oh
yeah
right
right that makes sense that's a good one
I like that
one I think my favorite one so far has
been the Lucas
numbers that just seems so
cool like I need to think about that
more cuz that is just such a neat
thing wow this one's relatively new up
to
10,000 oh that's stupid it's just a mask
it's just a mask
bro don't we all just wear
masks
SK all right that's it exploring the
world of
mathematics